Bot specs:

Weight: 30 kg
Buoyancy: 5N
Top speed: 0.5m/s
Operational depth: < 10m (acrylic hull of 5mm thickness can bear upto this pressure)
Endurance: 90 min
Energy consumption: 750 Wh
Batteries: 4 x 8000mAh LiPo batteries
Thrusters: Blue Robotics T100 thrusters
	6 thrusters arranged in such a way as to provide 6 degrees of freedom for motion
	However, the AUV is designed to offer high resistance to roll and pitch motion

Motherboard: intel i7-4770
IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit) - This gives the orientation information of AUV (angular orientation, angular velocities, angular acceleration)
	: Sparton AHRS8
ESC, Power board: Custom Manufactured
Main Board (interface between the {ESC,power board} and the motherboard is the main board): Arduino Mega2560
Onboard pneumatic systems for controlling marker dropper and grabber mechanism
Camera: 2x Microsoft 720p webcam (low budget cameras)

Dual Hull design, bottom hull houses batteries. Extremely waterproof. Bottom hull also houses a camera for vision along pool-bed
Top hull houses electronics (ESC boards, power board, main board) as well as the main motherboard all mounted on an internal support
structure. It also has a camera for straight vision. Modular design, the top hull can be easily disassembled, the sealing mechanism of
the back plate is lateral which enables a better seal and the sealant is a rubber O-ring. The back plate of the top hull houses the
pressure sensor (depth sensor) and has an ethernet connection to enable debugging the AUV in motion.

The thrusters are mounted on the supporting structures that connect the two hulls. Power is transferred from the lower to the upper hull
via underwater SubConn connectors. The hull shapes are based on iterating through various options and choosing as per the optimal CFD plot

Electronics: All custom designed, at a fraction of the cost of off-the-shelf electronics.
Power board: Supplies power all the other internal electronics. Has a battery protection circuit to regulate the battery voltage. If it drops
too low, power is cut-off to prevent damage. Power board is connected to the batteries vie SubConn connectors.
Main Board (Arduino Mega2560): Interfaces ESC boards with the motherboard.
ESC boards: There are 6 ESC boards, one for each thruster. These are equivalent to "motor driver circuits". They take a signal from the
main board (which in turn receives this signal from the motherboard) and based on the signal decide how much power is to be supplied to
the thrusters. 

On board image procesing algorithms to process live camera feed. Algorithms in place to identify a variety of objects underwater.
Challenging task due to diffraction effects underwater, blueish hue of water distorts true colors and effect of sunlight leading to poor
image quality and depth of vision. The current algorithms are designed in two stages: a preprocessing stage where the image is processed
to suppress unwanted underwater effects and make factors like edges and colors more discernible. The classification stage follows where
the pre-processed image is segmented into object (foreground) and background. Machine learning based approaches are being tested and will
be implemented subject to whether they will be able to run efficiently on the processor.

The mission controller is designed around a shared memory space. The state information of the AUV is contained in the shared segment and
is updated periodically by the image processing code to the location of the detected object. The internal path-planner decides the power 
to be delivered to each of the thrusters to achieve the required kind of motion and communcates with the main board which talks to the
ESC boards and powers the thrusters. The path planner takes the information provided by the image processing code as well as the data
from the pressure sensor and the IMU to compute the thruster power distribution.

Achievements:

Winners of NIOT SAVe 2014
Robosub 2014 placed 15th internationally

Placed 3rd in NIOT SAVe 2015
